To process scATAC-seq data, follow the specific instructions below.

Sample sheet
++++++++++++

#. **Reference** column.

	Pre-built scATAC-seq references are summarized below.

	.. list-table::
		:widths: 5 20
		:header-rows: 1

		* - Keyword
		  - Description
		* - **GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0**
		  - Human GRCh38, cellranger-arc/atac reference 2.0.0
		* - **mm10-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0**
		  - Mouse mm10, cellranger-arc/atac reference 2.0.0
		* - **GRCh38_and_mm10-2020-A_atac_v2.0.0**
		  - Human GRCh38 and mouse mm10, cellranger-atac reference 2.0.0
		* - **GRCh38_atac_v1.2.0**
		  - Human GRCh38, cellranger-atac reference 1.2.0
		* - **mm10_atac_v1.2.0**
		  - Mouse mm10, cellranger-atac reference 1.2.0
		* - **hg19_atac_v1.2.0**
		  - Human hg19, cellranger-atac reference 1.2.0
		* - **b37_atac_v1.2.0**
		  - Human b37 build, cellranger-atac reference 1.2.0
		* - **GRCh38_and_mm10_atac_v1.2.0**
		  - Human GRCh38 and mouse mm10, cellranger-atac reference 1.2.0
		* - **hg19_and_mm10_atac_v1.2.0**
		  - Human hg19 and mouse mm10, cellranger-atac reference 1.2.0
		* - **GRCh38_atac_v1.1.0**
		  - Human GRCh38, cellranger-atac reference 1.1.0
		* - **mm10_atac_v1.1.0**
		  - Mouse mm10, cellranger-atac reference 1.1.0
		* - **hg19_atac_v1.1.0**
		  - Human hg19, cellranger-atac reference 1.1.0
		* - **b37_atac_v1.1.0**
		  - Human b37 build, cellranger-atac reference 1.1.0
		* - **GRCh38_and_mm10_atac_v1.1.0**
		  - Human GRCh38 and mouse mm10, cellranger-atac reference 1.1.0
		* - **hg19_and_mm10_atac_v1.1.0**
		  - Human hg19 and mouse mm10, cellranger-atac reference 1.1.0

#. **Index** column.

	Put `10x single cell ATAC sample index set names`_ (e.g. SI-NA-B1) here.

#. *Chemistry* column.

	This column is not used for scATAC-seq data. Put **auto** here as a placeholder if you decide to include the Chemistry column.

#. *DataType* column.

	Set it to **atac**.

#. *FetureBarcodeFile* column.

	Leave it blank for scATAC-seq.

#. Example::

	Sample,Reference,Flowcell,Lane,Index,Chemistry,DataType
	sample_atac,GRCh38_atac_v1.1.0,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9YB,*,SI-NA-A1,auto,atac

Workflow input
++++++++++++++

``cellranger_workflow`` takes Illumina outputs as input and runs ``cellranger-atac mkfastq`` and ``cellranger-atac count``. Please see the description of inputs below. Note that required inputs are shown in bold.

.. list-table::
	:widths: 5 30 30 20
	:header-rows: 1

	* - Name
	  - Description
	  - Example
	  - Default
	* - **input_csv_file**
	  - Sample Sheet (contains Sample, Reference, Flowcell, Lane, Index as required and Chemistry, DataType, FeatureBarcodeFile as optional)
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/sample_sheet.csv"
	  -
	* - **output_directory**
	  - Output directory
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/cellranger_atac_output"
	  -
	* - run_mkfastq
	  - If you want to run ``cellranger-atac mkfastq``
	  - true
	  - true
	* - run_count
	  - If you want to run ``cellranger-atac count``
	  - true
	  - true
	* - delete_input_directory
	  - If delete BCL directories after demux. If false, you should delete this folder yourself so as to not incur storage charges
	  - false
	  - false
	* - mkfastq_barcode_mismatches
	  - Number of mismatches allowed in matching barcode indices (bcl2fastq2 default is 1)
	  - 0
	  -
	* - mkfastq_force_single_index
	  - If 10x-supplied i7/i5 paired indices are specified, but the flowcell was run with only one sample index, allow the demultiplex to proceed using the i7 half of the sample index pair
	  - false
	  - false
	* - mkfastq_filter_single_index
	  - Only demultiplex samples identified by an i7-only sample index, ignoring dual-indexed samples. Dual-indexed samples will not be demultiplexed
	  - false
	  - false
	* - mkfastq_use_bases_mask
	  - Override the read lengths as specified in *RunInfo.xml*
	  - "Y28n*,I8n*,N10,Y90n*"
 	  -
	* - mkfastq_delete_undetermined
	  - Delete undetermined FASTQ files generated by bcl2fastq2
	  - true
	  - false
	* - force_cells
	  - Force pipeline to use this number of cells, bypassing the cell detection algorithm
	  - 6000
	  -
	* - atac_dim_reduce
	  - Choose the algorithm for dimensionality reduction prior to clustering and tsne: "lsa", "plsa", or "pca"
	  - "lsa"
	  - "lsa"
	* - peaks
	  - A 3-column BED file of peaks to override cellranger atac peak caller. Peaks must be sorted by position and not contain overlapping peaks; comment lines beginning with ``#`` are allowed
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/common_peaks.bed"
	  -
	* - cellranger_atac_version
	  - cellranger-atac version. Available options: 2.0.0, 1.2.0, 1.1.0
	  - "2.0.0"
	  - "2.0.0"
	* - docker_registry
	  - Docker registry to use for cellranger_workflow. Options:

	  	- "quay.io/cumulus" for images on Red Hat registry;

	  	- "cumulusprod" for backup images on Docker Hub.
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"
	* - mkfastq_docker_registry
	  - Docker registry to use for ``cellranger-atac mkfastq``.
	    Default is the registry to which only Broad users have access.
	    See :ref:`bcl2fastq-docker` for making your own registry.
	  - "gcr.io/broad-cumulus"
	  - "gcr.io/broad-cumulus"
	* - acronym_file
	  - | The link/path of an index file in TSV format for fetching preset genome references, chemistry whitelists, etc. by their names.
	    | Set an GS URI if *backend* is ``gcp``; an S3 URI for ``aws`` backend; an absolute file path for ``local`` backend.
	  - "s3://xxxx/index.tsv"
	  - "gs://regev-lab/resources/cellranger/index.tsv"
	* - zones
	  - Google cloud zones
	  - "us-central1-a us-west1-a"
	  - "us-central1-a us-central1-b us-central1-c us-central1-f us-east1-b us-east1-c us-east1-d us-west1-a us-west1-b us-west1-c"
	* - atac_num_cpu
	  - Number of cpus for cellranger-atac count
	  - 64
	  - 64
	* - atac_memory
	  - Memory string for cellranger-atac count
	  - "57.6G"
	  - "57.6G"
	* - mkfastq_disk_space
	  - Optional disk space in GB for cellranger-atac mkfastq
	  - 1500
	  - 1500
	* - atac_disk_space
	  - Disk space in GB needed for cellranger-atac count
	  - 500
	  - 500
	* - backend
	  - Cloud backend for file transfer. Available options:

	  	- "gcp" for Google Cloud;
	  	- "aws" for Amazon AWS;
	  	- "local" for local machine.
	  - "gcp"
	  - "gcp"
	* - preemptible
	  - Number of preemptible tries
	  - 2
	  - 2
	* - awsMaxRetries
	  - Number of maximum retries when running on AWS. This works only when *backend* is ``aws``.
	  - 5
	  - 5

Workflow output
+++++++++++++++

See the table below for important scATAC-seq outputs.

.. list-table::
	:widths: 5 5 10
	:header-rows: 1

	* - Name
	  - Type
	  - Description
	* - cellranger_atac_mkfastq.output_fastqs_directory
	  - Array[String]?
	  - Subworkflow output. A list of cloud urls containing FASTQ files, one url per flowcell.
	* - cellranger_atac_count.output_count_directory
	  - Array[String]?
	  - Subworkflow output. A list of cloud urls containing cellranger-atac count outputs, one url per sample.
	* - cellranger_atac_count.output_web_summary
	  - Array[File]?
	  - Subworkflow output. A list of htmls visualizing QCs for each sample (cellranger-atac count output).
	* - collect_summaries_atac.metrics_summaries
	  - File?
	  - Task output. A excel spreadsheet containing QCs for each sample.

Aggregate scATAC-Seq Samples
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To aggregate multiple scATAC-Seq samples, follow the instructions below:

1. Import ``cellranger_atac_aggr`` workflow. Please see Step 1 `here <./index.html#a-general-step-by-step-instruction>`_, and the name of workflow is "**cumulus/cellranger_atac_aggr**".

2. Set the inputs of workflow. Please see the description of inputs below. Notice that required inputs are shown in bold:

.. list-table::
	:widths: 5 30 30 20
	:header-rows: 1

	* - Name
	  - Description
	  - Example
	  - Default
	* - **aggr_id**
	  - Aggregate ID.
	  - "aggr_sample"
	  -
	* - **input_counts_directories**
	  - A string contains comma-separated URLs to directories of samples to be aggregated.
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/data/sample1,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/data/sample2"
	  -
	* - **output_directory**
	  - Output directory
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/aggregate_result"
	  -
	* - **genome**
	  - The reference genome name used by Cell Ranger, can be either a keyword of pre-built genome, or a Google Bucket URL. See `this table <./index.html#single-cell-and-single-nucleus-rna-seq>`_ for the list of keywords of pre-built genomes.
	  - "GRCh38_atac_v1.2.0"
	  -
	* - normalize
	  - Sample normalization mode.
	    Options are: ``none``, ``depth``, or ``signal``.
	  - "none"
	  - "none"
	* - secondary
	  - Perform secondary analysis (dimensionality reduction, clustering and visualization).
	  - false
	  - false
	* - dim_reduce
	  - Choose the algorithm for dimensionality reduction prior to clustering and tsne.
	    Options are: ``lsa``, ``plsa``, or ``pca``.
	  - "lsa"
	  - "lsa"
	* - peaks
	  - A 3-column BED file of peaks to override cellranger atac peak caller. Peaks must be sorted by position and not contain overlapping peaks; comment lines beginning with `#` are allowed
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/common_peaks.bed"
	  -
	* - cellranger_atac_version
	  - Cell Ranger ATAC version to use.
	    Options: ``2.0.0``, ``1.2.0``, ``1.1.0``.
	  - "2.0.0"
	  - "2.0.0"
	* - zones
	  - Google cloud zones
	  - “us-central1-a us-west1-a”
	  - "us-central1-b"
	* - num_cpu
	  - Number of cpus to request for cellranger atac aggr.
	  - 64
	  - 64
	* - backend
	  - Cloud backend for file transfer. Available options:

	  	- "gcp" for Google Cloud;
	  	- "aws" for Amazon AWS;
	  	- "local" for local machine.
	  - "gcp"
	  - "gcp"
	* - memory
	  - Memory size string for cellranger atac aggr.
	  - "57.6G"
	  - "57.6G"
	* - disk_space
	  - Disk space in GB needed for cellranger atac aggr.
	  - 500
	  - 500
	* - preemptible
	  - Number of preemptible tries.
	  - 2
	  - 2
	* - docker_registry
	  - Docker registry to use for cellranger_workflow. Options:

	  	- "quay.io/cumulus" for images on Red Hat registry;

	  	- "cumulusprod" for backup images on Docker Hub.
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"

1. Check out the output in ``output_directory/aggr_id`` folder, where ``output_directory`` and ``aggr_id`` are the inputs you set in Step 2.


.. _10x single cell ATAC sample index set names: https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-atac/sequencing/doc/specifications-sample-index-sets-for-single-cell-atac
