docs/cellranger/sc_multiomics.rst, before:

To utilize cellranger arc/cellranger multi/cellranger count for single-cell multiomics, follow the specific instructions below. In particular, we put each single modality in one separate lin in the sample sheet as described above. We then use the *Link* column to link multiple modalities together. Depending on the modalities included, *cellranger arc* (Multiome ATAC + Gene Expression), *cellranger multi* (CellPlex), or *cellranger count* (Feature Barcode) will be triggered. Note that cumulus_feature_barcoding/demuxEM would not be triggered for hashing/citeseq in this setting.

Sample sheet
++++++++++++

#. **Reference** column.

	Pre-built Multiome ATAC + Gene Expression references are summarized below. CellPlex and Feature Barcode use the same reference as in Single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-seq.

	.. list-table::
		:widths: 5 20
		:header-rows: 1

		* - Keyword
		  - Description
		* - **GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0**
		  - Human GRCh38 sequences (GENCODE v32/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 2.0.0
		* - **mm10-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0**
		  - Mouse GRCm38 sequences (GENCODE vM23/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 2.0.0
		* - **GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v1.0.0**
		  - Human GRCh38 sequences (GENCODE v32/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 1.0.0
		* - **mm10-2020-A_arc_v1.0.0**
		  - Mouse GRCm38 sequences (GENCODE vM23/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 1.0.0

#. *DataType* column.

	For each modality, set it to the corresponding data type.

#. *FetureBarcodeFile* column.

	For RNA-seq modality, only set this if a target panel is provided.
	For CMO (CellPlex), provide sample name - CMO tag association as follows::

		sample1,CMO301|CMO302
		sample2,CMO303

	For CITESeq, Perturb-seq and hashing, provide one CSV file as defined in `Feature Barcode Reference`_. Note that one feature barcode reference should be provided for all feature-barcode related modalities (e.g. *citeseq*, *hashing*, *crispr*) and all these modalities should put the same reference file in *FeatureBarcodeFile* column.

#. *Link* column.

	Put a sample unique link name for all modalities that are linked.

#. Example::

	Sample,Reference,Flowcell,Lane,Index,DataType,FeatureBarcodeFile,Link
	sample1_rna,GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZZ,*,SI-TT-A1,rna,,sample1
	sample1_atac,GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZZ,*,SI-TT-N1,atac,,sample1
	sample2_rna,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZX,*,SI-TT-A2,rna,,sample2
	sample2_cmo,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZX,*,SI-TT-N2,cmo,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/cmo.csv,sample2
	sample3_rna,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZY,*,SI-TT-A3,rna,,sample3
	sample3_citeseq,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZY,*,SI-TT-N3,citeseq,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/feature_ref.csv,sample3


In the above example, three linked samples are provided. *cellranger arc*, *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count* will be triggered respectively.

Workflow input
++++++++++++++

For single-cell multiomics data, ``cellranger_workflow`` takes Illumina outputs as input and runs ``cellranger-arc mkfastq/cellranger mkfastq`` and ``cellranger-arc ount/cellranger multi/cellranger count``. Revalant workflow inputs are described below, with required inputs highlighted in bold.

.. list-table::
	:widths: 5 30 30 20
	:header-rows: 1

	* - Name
	  - Description
	  - Example
	  - Default
	* - **input_csv_file**
	  - Sample Sheet (contains Sample, Reference, Flowcell, Lane, Index as required and Chemistry, DataType, FeatureBarcodeFile, Link as optional)
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/sample_sheet.csv"
	  -
	* - **output_directory**
	  - Output directory
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/cellranger_output"
	  -
	* - run_mkfastq
	  - If you want to run ``cellranger-arc mkfastq/cellranger mkfastq``
	  - true
	  - true
	* - run_count
	  - If you want to run ``cellranger-arc count/cellranger multi/cellranger count``
	  - true
	  - true
	* - delete_input_bcl_directory
	  - If delete BCL directories after demux. If false, you should delete this folder yourself so as to not incur storage charges
	  - false
	  - false
	* - mkfastq_barcode_mismatches
	  - Number of mismatches allowed in matching barcode indices (bcl2fastq2 default is 1)
	  - 0
	  -
	* - mkfastq_filter_single_index
	  - Only demultiplex samples identified by an i7-only sample index, ignoring dual-indexed samples. Dual-indexed samples will not be demultiplexed
	  - false
	  - false
	* - mkfastq_use_bases_mask
	  - Override the read lengths as specified in *RunInfo.xml*
	  - "Y28n*,I8n*,N10,Y90n*"
	  -
	* - mkfastq_delete_undetermined
	  - Delete undetermined FASTQ files generated by bcl2fastq2
	  - true
	  - false
	* - force_cells
	  - Force pipeline to use this number of cells, bypassing the cell detection algorithm, mutually exclusive with expect_cells. This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - 6000
	  -
	* - expect_cells
	  - Expected number of recovered cells. Mutually exclusive with force_cells. This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - 3000
	  -
	* - include_introns
	  - Turn this option on to also count reads mapping to intronic regions. With this option, users do not need to use pre-mRNA references. Note that if this option is set, cellranger_version must be >= 5.0.0. This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - false
	  - false
	* - no_bam
	  - Turn this option on to disable BAM file generation. This option is only available if cellranger_version >= 5.0.0. This option is used by *cellranger-arc count*, *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - false
	  - false
	* - secondary
	  - Perform Cell Ranger secondary analysis (dimensionality reduction, clustering, etc.). This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - false
	  - false
	* - cmo_set
	  - CMO set CSV file, delaring CMO constructs and associated barcodes. See `CMO reference`_ for details. Used only for *cellranger multi*.
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/cmo_set.csv"
	  -
	* - cellranger_version
	  - cellranger version, could be 6.1.1, 6.0.2, 6.0.1, 6.0.0, 5.0.1, 5.0.0, 4.0.0, 3.1.0, 3.0.2
	  - "6.1.1"
	  - "6.1.1"
	* - cellranger_arc_version
	  - cellranger-arc version, could be 2.0.0, 1.0.1, 1.0.0
	  - "2.0.0"
	  - "2.0.0"
	* - docker_registry
	  - Docker registry to use for cellranger_workflow. Options:

	  	- "quay.io/cumulus" for images on Red Hat registry;

	  	- "cumulusprod" for backup images on Docker Hub.
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"
	* - mkfastq_docker_registry
	  - Docker registry to use for ``cellranger-arc mkfastq/cellranger mkfastq``.
	    Default is the registry to which only Broad users have access.
	    See :ref:`bcl2fastq-docker` for making your own registry.
	  - "gcr.io/broad-cumulus"
	  - "gcr.io/broad-cumulus"
	* - zones
	  - Google cloud zones
	  - "us-central1-a us-west1-a"
	  - "us-central1-a us-central1-b us-central1-c us-central1-f us-east1-b us-east1-c us-east1-d us-west1-a us-west1-b us-west1-c"
	* - num_cpu
	  - Number of cpus to request for one node for cellranger mkfastq and cellranger vdj
	  - 32
	  - 32
	* - memory
	  - Memory size string for cellranger/cellranger-arc mkfastq and cellranger vdj
	  - "120G"
	  - "120G"
	* - mkfastq_disk_space
	  - Optional disk space in GB for mkfastq
	  - 1500
	  - 1500
	* - count_disk_space
	  - Disk space in GB needed for cellranger count
	  - 500
	  - 500
	* - arc_num_cpu
	  - Number of cpus to request for one node for cellranger-arc count
	  - 64
	  - 64
	* - arc_memory
	  - Memory size string for cellranger-arc count
	  - "160G"
	  - "160G"
	* - arc_disk_space
	  - Disk space in GB needed for cellranger-arc count
	  - 700
	  - 700
	* - backend
	  - Cloud backend for file transfer. Available options:

	  	- "gcp" for Google Cloud;
	  	- "aws" for Amazon AWS;
	  	- "local" for local machine.
	  - "gcp"
	  - "gcp"
	* - preemptible
	  - Number of preemptible tries
	  - 2
	  - 2
	* - awsMaxRetries
	  - Number of maximum retries when running on AWS. This works only when *backend* is ``aws``.
	  - 5
	  - 5

Workflow output
+++++++++++++++

See the table below for important sc/snRNA-seq outputs.

.. list-table::
	:widths: 5 5 10
	:header-rows: 1

	* - Name
	  - Type
	  - Description
	* - output_fastqs_directory
	  - Array[String]
	  - A list of google bucket urls containing FASTQ files, one url per flowcell.
	* - output_count_directory
	  - Array[String]
	  - A list of google bucket urls containing count matrices, one url per sample.
	* - output_multi_directory
	  - Array[String]
	  - A list of google bucket urls containing *cellranger multi* outputs, one url per linked sample.
	* - metrics_summaries
	  - File
	  - A excel spreadsheet containing QCs for each sample.
	* - output_web_summary
	  - Array[File]
	  - A list of htmls visualizing QCs for each sample (cellranger count output).
	* - count_matrix
	  - String
	  - gs url for a template count_matrix.csv to run Cumulus.


.. _Feature Barcode Reference: https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/pipelines/latest/using/feature-bc-analysis#feature-ref
.. _CMO reference: https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/pipelines/latest/using/multi#cmoreference

Commit message:

Expose more options in cellranger_arc_count WDL

docs/cellranger/sc_multiomics.rst, after:

To utilize cellranger arc/cellranger multi/cellranger count for single-cell multiomics, follow the specific instructions below. In particular, we put each single modality in one separate lin in the sample sheet as described above. We then use the *Link* column to link multiple modalities together. Depending on the modalities included, *cellranger arc* (Multiome ATAC + Gene Expression), *cellranger multi* (CellPlex), or *cellranger count* (Feature Barcode) will be triggered. Note that cumulus_feature_barcoding/demuxEM would not be triggered for hashing/citeseq in this setting.

Sample sheet
++++++++++++

#. **Reference** column.

	Pre-built Multiome ATAC + Gene Expression references are summarized below. CellPlex and Feature Barcode use the same reference as in Single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-seq.

	.. list-table::
		:widths: 5 20
		:header-rows: 1

		* - Keyword
		  - Description
		* - **GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0**
		  - Human GRCh38 sequences (GENCODE v32/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 2.0.0
		* - **mm10-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0**
		  - Mouse GRCm38 sequences (GENCODE vM23/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 2.0.0
		* - **GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v1.0.0**
		  - Human GRCh38 sequences (GENCODE v32/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 1.0.0
		* - **mm10-2020-A_arc_v1.0.0**
		  - Mouse GRCm38 sequences (GENCODE vM23/Ensembl 98), cellranger arc reference 1.0.0

#. *DataType* column.

	For each modality, set it to the corresponding data type.

#. *FetureBarcodeFile* column.

	For RNA-seq modality, only set this if a target panel is provided.
	For CMO (CellPlex), provide sample name - CMO tag association as follows::

		sample1,CMO301|CMO302
		sample2,CMO303

	For CITESeq, Perturb-seq and hashing, provide one CSV file as defined in `Feature Barcode Reference`_. Note that one feature barcode reference should be provided for all feature-barcode related modalities (e.g. *citeseq*, *hashing*, *crispr*) and all these modalities should put the same reference file in *FeatureBarcodeFile* column.

#. *Link* column.

	Put a sample unique link name for all modalities that are linked.

#. Example::

	Sample,Reference,Flowcell,Lane,Index,DataType,FeatureBarcodeFile,Link
	sample1_rna,GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZZ,*,SI-TT-A1,rna,,sample1
	sample1_atac,GRCh38-2020-A_arc_v2.0.0,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZZ,*,SI-TT-N1,atac,,sample1
	sample2_rna,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZX,*,SI-TT-A2,rna,,sample2
	sample2_cmo,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZX,*,SI-TT-N2,cmo,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/cmo.csv,sample2
	sample3_rna,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZY,*,SI-TT-A3,rna,,sample3
	sample3_citeseq,GRCh38-2020-A,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK10WBC9ZY,*,SI-TT-N3,citeseq,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/feature_ref.csv,sample3


In the above example, three linked samples are provided. *cellranger arc*, *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count* will be triggered respectively.

Workflow input
++++++++++++++

For single-cell multiomics data, ``cellranger_workflow`` takes Illumina outputs as input and runs ``cellranger-arc mkfastq/cellranger mkfastq`` and ``cellranger-arc ount/cellranger multi/cellranger count``. Revalant workflow inputs are described below, with required inputs highlighted in bold.

.. list-table::
	:widths: 5 30 30 20
	:header-rows: 1

	* - Name
	  - Description
	  - Example
	  - Default
	* - **input_csv_file**
	  - Sample Sheet (contains Sample, Reference, Flowcell, Lane, Index as required and Chemistry, DataType, FeatureBarcodeFile, Link as optional)
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/sample_sheet.csv"
	  -
	* - **output_directory**
	  - Output directory
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/cellranger_output"
	  -
	* - run_mkfastq
	  - If you want to run ``cellranger-arc mkfastq/cellranger mkfastq``
	  - true
	  - true
	* - run_count
	  - If you want to run ``cellranger-arc count/cellranger multi/cellranger count``
	  - true
	  - true
	* - delete_input_bcl_directory
	  - If delete BCL directories after demux. If false, you should delete this folder yourself so as to not incur storage charges
	  - false
	  - false
	* - mkfastq_barcode_mismatches
	  - Number of mismatches allowed in matching barcode indices (bcl2fastq2 default is 1)
	  - 0
	  -
	* - mkfastq_filter_single_index
	  - Only demultiplex samples identified by an i7-only sample index, ignoring dual-indexed samples. Dual-indexed samples will not be demultiplexed
	  - false
	  - false
	* - mkfastq_use_bases_mask
	  - Override the read lengths as specified in *RunInfo.xml*
	  - "Y28n*,I8n*,N10,Y90n*"
	  -
	* - mkfastq_delete_undetermined
	  - Delete undetermined FASTQ files generated by bcl2fastq2
	  - true
	  - false
	* - force_cells
	  - Force pipeline to use this number of cells, bypassing the cell detection algorithm, mutually exclusive with expect_cells. This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - 6000
	  -
	* - expect_cells
	  - Expected number of recovered cells. Mutually exclusive with force_cells. This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - 3000
	  -
	* - include_introns
	  - Turn this option on to also count reads mapping to intronic regions. With this option, users do not need to use pre-mRNA references. Note that if this option is set, cellranger_version must be >= 5.0.0. This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - false
	  - false
	* - arc_gex_exclude_introns
	  - | Disable counting of intronic reads. In this mode, only reads that are exonic and compatible with annotated splice junctions in the reference are counted.
	    | **Note:** using this mode will reduce the UMI counts in the feature-barcode matrix.
	  - false
	  - false
	* - no_bam
	  - Turn this option on to disable BAM file generation. This option is only available if cellranger_version >= 5.0.0. This option is used by *cellranger-arc count*, *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - false
	  - false
	* - arc_min_atac_count
	  - | Cell caller override to define the minimum number of ATAC transposition events in peaks (ATAC counts) for a cell barcode.
	    | **Note:** this input must be specified in conjunction with ``arc_min_gex_count`` input.
	    | With both inputs set, a barcode is defined as a cell if it contains at least ``arc_min_atac_count`` ATAC counts AND at least ``arc_min_gex_count`` GEX UMI counts.
	  - 100
	  -
	* - arc_min_gex_count
	  - | Cell caller override to define the minimum number of GEX UMI counts for a cell barcode.
	    | **Note:** this input must be specified in conjunction with ``arc_min_atac_count``. See the description of ``arc_min_atac_count`` input for details.
	  - 200
	  -
	* - peaks
	  - A 3-column BED file of peaks to override cellranger arc peak caller. Peaks must be sorted by position and not contain overlapping peaks; comment lines beginning with ``#`` are allowed
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/common_peaks.bed"
	  -
	* - secondary
	  - Perform Cell Ranger secondary analysis (dimensionality reduction, clustering, etc.). This option is used by *cellranger multi* and *cellranger count*.
	  - false
	  - false
	* - cmo_set
	  - CMO set CSV file, delaring CMO constructs and associated barcodes. See `CMO reference`_ for details. Used only for *cellranger multi*.
	  - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/cmo_set.csv"
	  -
	* - cellranger_version
	  - cellranger version, could be 6.1.1, 6.0.2, 6.0.1, 6.0.0, 5.0.1, 5.0.0, 4.0.0, 3.1.0, 3.0.2
	  - "6.1.1"
	  - "6.1.1"
	* - cellranger_arc_version
	  - cellranger-arc version, could be 2.0.0, 1.0.1, 1.0.0
	  - "2.0.0"
	  - "2.0.0"
	* - docker_registry
	  - Docker registry to use for cellranger_workflow. Options:

	  	- "quay.io/cumulus" for images on Red Hat registry;

	  	- "cumulusprod" for backup images on Docker Hub.
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"
	  - "quay.io/cumulus"
	* - mkfastq_docker_registry
	  - Docker registry to use for ``cellranger-arc mkfastq/cellranger mkfastq``.
	    Default is the registry to which only Broad users have access.
	    See :ref:`bcl2fastq-docker` for making your own registry.
	  - "gcr.io/broad-cumulus"
	  - "gcr.io/broad-cumulus"
	* - zones
	  - Google cloud zones
	  - "us-central1-a us-west1-a"
	  - "us-central1-a us-central1-b us-central1-c us-central1-f us-east1-b us-east1-c us-east1-d us-west1-a us-west1-b us-west1-c"
	* - num_cpu
	  - Number of cpus to request for one node for cellranger mkfastq and cellranger vdj
	  - 32
	  - 32
	* - memory
	  - Memory size string for cellranger/cellranger-arc mkfastq and cellranger vdj
	  - "120G"
	  - "120G"
	* - mkfastq_disk_space
	  - Optional disk space in GB for mkfastq
	  - 1500
	  - 1500
	* - count_disk_space
	  - Disk space in GB needed for cellranger count
	  - 500
	  - 500
	* - arc_num_cpu
	  - Number of cpus to request for one node for cellranger-arc count
	  - 64
	  - 64
	* - arc_memory
	  - Memory size string for cellranger-arc count
	  - "160G"
	  - "160G"
	* - arc_disk_space
	  - Disk space in GB needed for cellranger-arc count
	  - 700
	  - 700
	* - backend
	  - Cloud backend for file transfer. Available options:

	  	- "gcp" for Google Cloud;
	  	- "aws" for Amazon AWS;
	  	- "local" for local machine.
	  - "gcp"
	  - "gcp"
	* - preemptible
	  - Number of preemptible tries
	  - 2
	  - 2
	* - awsMaxRetries
	  - Number of maximum retries when running on AWS. This works only when *backend* is ``aws``.
	  - 5
	  - 5

Workflow output
+++++++++++++++

See the table below for important sc/snRNA-seq outputs.

.. list-table::
	:widths: 5 5 10
	:header-rows: 1

	* - Name
	  - Type
	  - Description
	* - output_fastqs_directory
	  - Array[String]
	  - A list of google bucket urls containing FASTQ files, one url per flowcell.
	* - output_count_directory
	  - Array[String]
	  - A list of google bucket urls containing count matrices, one url per sample.
	* - output_multi_directory
	  - Array[String]
	  - A list of google bucket urls containing *cellranger multi* outputs, one url per linked sample.
	* - metrics_summaries
	  - File
	  - A excel spreadsheet containing QCs for each sample.
	* - output_web_summary
	  - Array[File]
	  - A list of htmls visualizing QCs for each sample (cellranger count output).
	* - count_matrix
	  - String
	  - gs url for a template count_matrix.csv to run Cumulus.


.. _Feature Barcode Reference: https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/pipelines/latest/using/feature-bc-analysis#feature-ref
.. _CMO reference: https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/pipelines/latest/using/multi#cmoreference
