docs/bcl2fastq.rst, before:

.. _bcl2fastq-docker:

bcl2fastq
-----------

License
^^^^^^^^^
`bcl2fastq license`_

Workflows
^^^^^^^^^^^^
Workflows such as **cellranger_workflow** and **dropseq_workflow** provide the option of running ``bcl2fastq``. We provide dockers
containing ``bcl2fastq`` that are accessible only by members of the Broad Institute. Non-Broad Institute members will have to provide
their own docker images.

Docker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Read `this tutorial <https://docs.docker.com/get-started/>`_ if you are new to Docker.

Then for a Debian based docker (e.g. `continuumio/miniconda3 <https://hub.docker.com/r/continuumio/miniconda3>`_), create the Dockerfile as follows::

    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install --no-install-recommends -y alien unzip
    ADD bcl2fastq2-v2-20-0-linux-x86-64.zip /software/
    RUN unzip -d /software/ /software/bcl2fastq2-v2-20-0-linux-x86-64.zip && alien -i /software/bcl2fastq2-v2.20.0.422-Linux-x86_64.rpm && rm /software/bcl2fastq2-v2*

Next, download ``bcl2fastq`` from `the Illumina website <https://support.illumina.com/downloads/bcl2fastq-conversion-software-v2-20.html>`_,
which requires registration. Choose the ``Linux rpm`` file format and download
bcl2fastq2-v2-20-0-linux-x86-64.zip to the same directory as your Dockerfile.

You can host your private docker images in the `Google Container Registry`_.

Example
^^^^^^^^^
In this example we create a docker image for running ``cellranger mkfastq`` version 3.0.2.

#. Create a GCP project or reuse an existing project.
#. Enable the Google Container Registry
#. Clone the cumulus repository::

    git clone https://github.com/klarman-cell-observatory/cumulus.git

#. Add the lines to cumulus/docker/cellranger/3.0.2/Dockerfile to include bcl2fastq (see Docker_).
#. Ensure you have `Docker installed`_
#. Download cellranger from https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/downloads/3.0
#. Build, tag, and push the docker. Remember to replace PROJECT_ID with your GCP project id::

    cd cumulus/docker/cellranger/3.0.2/
    docker build -t cellranger-3.0.2 .
    docker tag cellranger-3.0.2 gcr.io/PROJECT_ID/cellranger:3.0.2
    gcr.io/PROJECT_ID/cellranger:3.0.2

#. Import **cellranger_workflow** workflow to your workspace (see `cellranger_workflow steps <./cellranger.html>`_), and enter your docker registry URL (in this example, ``"gcr.io/PROJECT_ID/"``) in ``cellranger_mkfastq_docker_registry`` field of `cellranger_workflow inputs <./cellranger.html#cellranger-workflow-inputs>`_.

.. _`Google Container Registry`: https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/
.. _`bcl2fastq license`: https://support.illumina.com/content/dam/illumina-support/documents/downloads/software/bcl2fastq/bcl2fastq2-v2-20-eula.pdf
.. _`Docker installed`: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop

Commit message:

Added note about firecloud group

docs/bcl2fastq.rst, after:

.. _bcl2fastq-docker:

bcl2fastq
-----------

License
^^^^^^^^^
`bcl2fastq license`_

Workflows
^^^^^^^^^^^^
Workflows such as **cellranger_workflow** and **dropseq_workflow** provide the option of running ``bcl2fastq``. We provide dockers
containing ``bcl2fastq`` that are accessible only by members of the Broad Institute. Non-Broad Institute members will have to provide
their own docker images. Please note that if you're a Broad Institute member and are not able to pull the docker image, please check
https://app.terra.bio/#groups to see that you're a member of the all_broad_users group. If not, please contact
Terra support and ask to be added to the all_broad_users@firecloud.org group.

Docker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Read `this tutorial <https://docs.docker.com/get-started/>`_ if you are new to Docker.

Then for a Debian based docker (e.g. `continuumio/miniconda3 <https://hub.docker.com/r/continuumio/miniconda3>`_), create the Dockerfile as follows::

    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install --no-install-recommends -y alien unzip
    ADD bcl2fastq2-v2-20-0-linux-x86-64.zip /software/
    RUN unzip -d /software/ /software/bcl2fastq2-v2-20-0-linux-x86-64.zip && alien -i /software/bcl2fastq2-v2.20.0.422-Linux-x86_64.rpm && rm /software/bcl2fastq2-v2*

Next, download ``bcl2fastq`` from `the Illumina website <https://support.illumina.com/downloads/bcl2fastq-conversion-software-v2-20.html>`_,
which requires registration. Choose the ``Linux rpm`` file format and download
bcl2fastq2-v2-20-0-linux-x86-64.zip to the same directory as your Dockerfile.

You can host your private docker images in the `Google Container Registry`_.

Example
^^^^^^^^^
In this example we create a docker image for running ``cellranger mkfastq`` version 3.0.2.

#. Create a GCP project or reuse an existing project.
#. Enable the Google Container Registry
#. Clone the cumulus repository::

    git clone https://github.com/klarman-cell-observatory/cumulus.git

#. Add the lines to cumulus/docker/cellranger/3.0.2/Dockerfile to include bcl2fastq (see Docker_).
#. Ensure you have `Docker installed`_
#. Download cellranger from https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/downloads/3.0
#. Build, tag, and push the docker. Remember to replace PROJECT_ID with your GCP project id::

    cd cumulus/docker/cellranger/3.0.2/
    docker build -t cellranger-3.0.2 .
    docker tag cellranger-3.0.2 gcr.io/PROJECT_ID/cellranger:3.0.2
    gcr.io/PROJECT_ID/cellranger:3.0.2

#. Import **cellranger_workflow** workflow to your workspace (see `cellranger_workflow steps <./cellranger.html>`_), and enter your docker registry URL (in this example, ``"gcr.io/PROJECT_ID/"``) in ``cellranger_mkfastq_docker_registry`` field of `cellranger_workflow inputs <./cellranger.html#cellranger-workflow-inputs>`_.

.. _`Google Container Registry`: https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/
.. _`bcl2fastq license`: https://support.illumina.com/content/dam/illumina-support/documents/downloads/software/bcl2fastq/bcl2fastq2-v2-20-eula.pdf
.. _`Docker installed`: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop
