docs/smart_seq_2.rst, before:

Extract gene-count matrices from plated-based SMART-Seq2 data
-------------------------------------------------------------

Run SMART-Seq2 Workflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Follow the steps below to extract gene-count matrices from SMART-Seq2 data on Terra_. This WDL aligns reads using *Bowtie 2* and estimates expression levels using *RSEM*.

#. Copy your sequencing output to your workspace bucket using gsutil_ in your unix terminal.

    You can obtain your bucket URL in the dashboard tab of your Terra workspace under the information panel.

    .. image:: images/google_bucket_link.png

    Note: Broad users need to be on an UGER node (not a login node) in order to use the ``-m`` flag

    Request an UGER node::

        reuse UGER
        qrsh -q interactive -l h_vmem=4g -pe smp 8 -binding linear:8 -P regevlab

    The above command requests an interactive node with 4G memory per thread and 8 threads. Feel free to change the memory, thread, and project parameters.

    Once you're connected to an UGER node, you can make gsutil_ available by running::

        reuse Google-Cloud-SDK

    Use ``gsutil cp [OPTION]... src_url dst_url`` to copy data to your workspace bucket.
    For example, the following command copies the directory at /foo/bar/nextseq/Data/VK18WBC6Z4 to a Google bucket::

        gsutil -m cp -r /foo/bar/nextseq/Data/VK18WBC6Z4 gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK18WBC6Z4

    ``-m`` means copy in parallel, ``-r`` means copy the directory recursively.


#. Create a sample sheet. 

    Please note that the columns in the CSV can be in any order, but that the column names must match the recognized headings.

    The sample sheet provides metadata for each cell:

    .. list-table::
        :widths: 5 30
        :header-rows: 1

        * - Column
          - Description
        * - Cell
          - Cell name.
        * - Plate
          - Plate name. Cells with the same plate name are from the same plate.
        * - Read1
          - Location of the FASTQ file for read1 in the cloud (gsurl).
        * - Read2
          - (Optional). Location of the FASTQ file for read2 in the cloud (gsurl). This field can be skipped for single-end reads.

    Example::

        Cell,Plate,Read1,Read2
        cell-1,plate-1,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-1_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-1_L001_R2_001.fastq.gz
        cell-2,plate-1,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-2_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-2_L001_R2_001.fastq.gz
        cell-3,plate-2,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-3_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,
        cell-4,plate-2,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-4_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,


#. Upload your sample sheet to the workspace bucket.

    Example::

        gsutil cp /foo/bar/projects/sample_sheet.csv gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/


#. Import *smartseq2* workflow to your workspace.

    See the Terra documentation for `adding a workflow`_. The *smartseq2* workflow is under ``Broad Methods Repository`` with name "**cumulus/smartseq2**".

    Moreover, in the workflow page, click ``Export to Workspace...`` button, and select the workspace to which you want to export *smartseq2* workflow in the drop-down menu.

#. In your workspace, open ``smartseq2`` in ``WORKFLOWS`` tab. Select ``Run workflow with inputs defined by file paths`` as below

    .. image:: images/single_workflow.png

   and click ``SAVE`` button.


Inputs:
^^^^^^^

Please see the description of inputs below. Note that required inputs are shown in bold.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 30 30 5
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
      - Example
      - Default
    * - **input_csv_file**
      - Sample Sheet (contains Cell, Plate, Read1, Read2)
      - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/sample_sheet.csv"
      - 
    * - **output_directory**
      - Output directory
      - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2_output"
      -
    * - **reference**
      - Reference transcriptome to align reads to. Acceptable values:
      
        - Pre-created genome references:

          - "GRCh38_ens93filt" for human, genome version is GRCh38, gene annotation is generated using human Ensembl 93 GTF according to `cellranger mkgtf`_;

          - "GRCm38_ens93filt" for mouse, genome version is GRCm38, gene annotation is generated using mouse Ensembl 93 GTF according to `cellranger mkgtf`_;

        - Create a custom genome reference using `smartseq2_create_reference workflow <./smart_seq_2.html#custom-genome>`_, and specify its Google bucket URL here.
      - | "GRCh38_ens93filt", or
        | "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/rsem_ref.tar.gz"
      - 
    * - aligner
      - Which aligner to use for read alignment. Options are "hisat2-hca", "star" and "bowtie"
      - "star"
      - "hisat2-hca"
    * - smartseq2_version
      - SMART-Seq2 version to use. Versions available: 1.1.0.
      - "1.1.0"
      - "1.1.0"
    * - docker_registry
      - Docker registry to use. Options:

        - "cumulusprod" for Docker Hub images; 

        - "quay.io/cumulus" for backup images on Red Hat registry.
      - "cumulusprod"
      - "cumulusprod"
    * - zones
      - Google cloud zones
      - "us-east1-d us-west1-a us-west1-b"
      - "us-central1-a us-central1-b us-central1-c us-central1-f us-east1-b us-east1-c us-east1-d us-west1-a us-west1-b us-west1-c"
    * - num_cpu
      - Number of cpus to request for one node
      - 4
      - 4
    * - memory
      - Memory size string
      - "3.60G"
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, "3.6G"; otherwise "32G"
    * - disk_space_multiplier
      - Factor to multiply size of R1 and R2 by for RSEM
      - Float
      - 11
    * - generate_count_matrix_disk_space
      - Disk space for count matrix generation task in GB
      - Integer
      - 10
    * - preemptible
      - Number of preemptible tries
      - 2
      - 2

---------------------------------

Outputs:
^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 5 10
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Type
      - Description
    * - output_count_matrix
      - Array[String]
      - A list of google bucket urls containing gene-count matrices, one per plate. Each gene-count matrix file has the suffix ``.dge.txt.gz``.
    * - output_qc_report
      - Array[String]
      - A list of google bucket urls containing simple quality control statistics, one per plate. Each file contains one line per cell and each line has three columns: Total reads, Alignment rate and Unique rate.
    * - rsem_gene
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM gene expression estimation files.
    * - rsem_gene
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM gene expression estimation files.
    * - rsem_isoform
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM isoform expression estimation files.
    * - rsem_trans_bam
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM transcriptomic BAM files.
    * - rsem_time
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM execution time log files.
    * - aligner_log
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of Aligner log files.
    * - rsem_cnt
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM count files.
    * - rsem_model
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM model files.
    * - rsem_theta
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM generated theta files.


This WDL generates one gene-count matrix per SMART-Seq2 plate. The gene-count matrix uses Drop-Seq format: 

- The first line starts with ``"Gene"`` and then gives cell barcodes separated by tabs. 
- Starting from the second line, each line describes one gene. 
  The first item in the line is the gene name and the rest items are TPM-normalized count values of this gene for each cell. 

The gene-count matrices can be fed directly into **cumulus** for downstream analysis.

TPM-normalized counts are calculated as follows:

#. Estimate the gene expression levels in TPM using *RSEM*. 

#. Suppose ``c`` reads are achieved for one cell, then calculate TPM-normalized count for gene ``i`` as ``TPM_i / 1e6 * c``. 

TPM-normalized counts reflect both the relative expression levels and the cell sequencing depth.


---------------------------------

Custom Genome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We also provide a way of generating user-customized Genome references for SMART-Seq2 workflow.

#. Import smartseq2_create_reference workflow to your workspace.

    See the Terra documentation for `adding a workflow`_. The smartseq2_create_reference workflow is under ``Broad Methods Repository`` with name "**cumulus/smartseq2_create_reference**".

    Moreover, in the workflow page, click ``Export to Workflow...`` button, and select the workspace to which you want to export ``smartseq2_create_reference`` in the drop-down menu.

#. In your workspace, open ``smartseq2_create_reference`` in ``WORKFLOWS`` tab. Select ``Run workflow with inputs defined by file paths`` as below

    .. image:: images/single_workflow.png

   and click ``SAVE`` button.


Inputs:
^^^^^^^

Please see the description of inputs below. Note that required inputs are shown in bold.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 30 30 5
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
      - Type or Example
      - Default
    * - **fasta**
      - Genome fasta file
      - | File. 
        | For example, "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.dna.primary_assembly.fa"
      - 
    * - **gtf**
      - GTF gene annotation file (e.g. Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.83.gtf)
      - | File. 
        | For example, "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.83.gtf"
      - 
    * - **output_directory**
      - Google bucket url for the output folder
      - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/output_refs"
      -
    * - **genome**
      - Output reference genome name. Output reference is a gzipped tarball with name genome_aligner.tar.gz
      - "GRCm38_ens97filt"
      -
    * - aligner
      - Build indices for which aligner, choices are hisat2-hca, star, or bowtie2.
      - "hisat2-hca"
      - "hisat2-hca"
    * - smartseq2_version
      - | SMART-Seq2 version to use. 
        | Versions available: 1.1.0.
        | Versions obsoleted: 1.0.0.
      - "1.1.0"
      - "1.1.0"
    * - docker_registry
      - Docker registry to use. Options:

        - "cumulusprod" for Docker Hub images; 

        - "quay.io/cumulus" for backup images on Red Hat registry.
      - "quay.io/cumulus"
      - "cumulusprod"
    * - zones
      - Google cloud zones
      - "us-central1-c"
      - "us-central1-b"
    * - cpu
      - Number of CPUs
      - Integer
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, 8; otherwise 32
    * - memory
      - Memory size string
      - String
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, "7.2G"; otherwise "120G"
    * - disk_space
      - Disk space in GB
      - Integer
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, 40; otherwise 120
    * - preemptible
      - Number of preemptible tries
      - Integer
      - 2

Outputs
^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 5 10
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Type
      - Description
    * - output_reference
      - File
      - The custom Genome reference generated. Its default file name is ``genome_aligner.tar.gz``.
    * - monitoring_log
      - File
      - CPU and memory profiling log.



---------------------------------


.. _gsutil: https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil
.. _adding a workflow: https://support.terra.bio/hc/en-us/articles/360025674392-Finding-the-tool-method-you-need-in-the-Methods-Repository
.. _cellranger mkgtf: https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/pipelines/latest/advanced/references
.. _Terra: https://app.terra.bio/

Commit message:

added options to normalize TPM values by sequencing depth and output genomic bam.

docs/smart_seq_2.rst, after:

Extract gene-count matrices from plated-based SMART-Seq2 data
-------------------------------------------------------------

Run SMART-Seq2 Workflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Follow the steps below to extract gene-count matrices from SMART-Seq2 data on Terra_. This WDL aligns reads using *Bowtie 2* and estimates expression levels using *RSEM*.

#. Copy your sequencing output to your workspace bucket using gsutil_ in your unix terminal.

    You can obtain your bucket URL in the dashboard tab of your Terra workspace under the information panel.

    .. image:: images/google_bucket_link.png

    Note: Broad users need to be on an UGER node (not a login node) in order to use the ``-m`` flag

    Request an UGER node::

        reuse UGER
        qrsh -q interactive -l h_vmem=4g -pe smp 8 -binding linear:8 -P regevlab

    The above command requests an interactive node with 4G memory per thread and 8 threads. Feel free to change the memory, thread, and project parameters.

    Once you're connected to an UGER node, you can make gsutil_ available by running::

        reuse Google-Cloud-SDK

    Use ``gsutil cp [OPTION]... src_url dst_url`` to copy data to your workspace bucket.
    For example, the following command copies the directory at /foo/bar/nextseq/Data/VK18WBC6Z4 to a Google bucket::

        gsutil -m cp -r /foo/bar/nextseq/Data/VK18WBC6Z4 gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/VK18WBC6Z4

    ``-m`` means copy in parallel, ``-r`` means copy the directory recursively.


#. Create a sample sheet. 

    Please note that the columns in the CSV can be in any order, but that the column names must match the recognized headings.

    The sample sheet provides metadata for each cell:

    .. list-table::
        :widths: 5 30
        :header-rows: 1

        * - Column
          - Description
        * - Cell
          - Cell name.
        * - Plate
          - Plate name. Cells with the same plate name are from the same plate.
        * - Read1
          - Location of the FASTQ file for read1 in the cloud (gsurl).
        * - Read2
          - (Optional). Location of the FASTQ file for read2 in the cloud (gsurl). This field can be skipped for single-end reads.

    Example::

        Cell,Plate,Read1,Read2
        cell-1,plate-1,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-1_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-1_L001_R2_001.fastq.gz
        cell-2,plate-1,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-2_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-2_L001_R2_001.fastq.gz
        cell-3,plate-2,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-3_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,
        cell-4,plate-2,gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2/cell-4_L001_R1_001.fastq.gz,


#. Upload your sample sheet to the workspace bucket.

    Example::

        gsutil cp /foo/bar/projects/sample_sheet.csv gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/


#. Import *smartseq2* workflow to your workspace.

    See the Terra documentation for `adding a workflow`_. The *smartseq2* workflow is under ``Broad Methods Repository`` with name "**cumulus/smartseq2**".

    Moreover, in the workflow page, click ``Export to Workspace...`` button, and select the workspace to which you want to export *smartseq2* workflow in the drop-down menu.

#. In your workspace, open ``smartseq2`` in ``WORKFLOWS`` tab. Select ``Run workflow with inputs defined by file paths`` as below

    .. image:: images/single_workflow.png

   and click ``SAVE`` button.


Inputs:
^^^^^^^

Please see the description of inputs below. Note that required inputs are shown in bold.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 30 30 5
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
      - Example
      - Default
    * - **input_csv_file**
      - Sample Sheet (contains Cell, Plate, Read1, Read2)
      - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/sample_sheet.csv"
      - 
    * - **output_directory**
      - Output directory
      - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/smartseq2_output"
      -
    * - **reference**
      - Reference transcriptome to align reads to. Acceptable values:
      
        - Pre-created genome references:

          - "GRCh38_ens93filt" for human, genome version is GRCh38, gene annotation is generated using human Ensembl 93 GTF according to `cellranger mkgtf`_;

          - "GRCm38_ens93filt" for mouse, genome version is GRCm38, gene annotation is generated using mouse Ensembl 93 GTF according to `cellranger mkgtf`_;

        - Create a custom genome reference using `smartseq2_create_reference workflow <./smart_seq_2.html#custom-genome>`_, and specify its Google bucket URL here.
      - | "GRCh38_ens93filt", or
        | "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/rsem_ref.tar.gz"
      - 
    * - aligner
      - Which aligner to use for read alignment. Options are "hisat2-hca", "star" and "bowtie"
      - "star"
      - "hisat2-hca"
    * - output_genome_bam
      - Whether to output bam file with alignments mapped to genomic coordinates and annotated with their posterior probabilities.
      - false
      - false
    * - normalize_tpm_by_sequencing_depth
      - Whether to normalize TPM values by sequencing depth.
      - true
      - true
    * - smartseq2_version
      - SMART-Seq2 version to use. Versions available: 1.1.0.
      - "1.1.0"
      - "1.1.0"
    * - docker_registry
      - Docker registry to use. Options:

        - "cumulusprod" for Docker Hub images; 

        - "quay.io/cumulus" for backup images on Red Hat registry.
      - "cumulusprod"
      - "cumulusprod"
    * - zones
      - Google cloud zones
      - "us-east1-d us-west1-a us-west1-b"
      - "us-central1-a us-central1-b us-central1-c us-central1-f us-east1-b us-east1-c us-east1-d us-west1-a us-west1-b us-west1-c"
    * - num_cpu
      - Number of cpus to request for one node
      - 4
      - 4
    * - memory
      - Memory size string
      - "3.60G"
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, "3.6G"; otherwise "32G"
    * - disk_space_multiplier
      - Factor to multiply size of R1 and R2 by for RSEM
      - Float
      - 11
    * - generate_count_matrix_disk_space
      - Disk space for count matrix generation task in GB
      - Integer
      - 10
    * - preemptible
      - Number of preemptible tries
      - 2
      - 2

---------------------------------

Outputs:
^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 5 10
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Type
      - Description
    * - output_count_matrix
      - Array[String]
      - A list of google bucket urls containing gene-count matrices, one per plate. Each gene-count matrix file has the suffix ``.dge.txt.gz``.
    * - output_qc_report
      - Array[String]
      - A list of google bucket urls containing simple quality control statistics, one per plate. Each file contains one line per cell and each line has three columns: Total reads, Alignment rate and Unique rate.
    * - rsem_gene
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM gene expression estimation files.
    * - rsem_gene
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM gene expression estimation files.
    * - rsem_isoform
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM isoform expression estimation files.
    * - rsem_trans_bam
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM transcriptomic BAM files.
    * - rsem_genome_bam
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM genomic BAM files if ``output_genome_bam`` is ``true``.
    * - rsem_time
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM execution time log files.
    * - aligner_log
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of Aligner log files.
    * - rsem_cnt
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM count files.
    * - rsem_model
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM model files.
    * - rsem_theta
      - Array[Array[File]]
      - A 2D array of RSEM generated theta files.


This WDL generates one gene-count matrix per SMART-Seq2 plate. The gene-count matrix uses Drop-Seq format: 

- The first line starts with ``"Gene"`` and then gives cell barcodes separated by tabs. 
- Starting from the second line, each line describes one gene. 
  The first item in the line is the gene name and the rest items are TPM-normalized count values of this gene for each cell. 

The gene-count matrices can be fed directly into **cumulus** for downstream analysis.

TPM-normalized counts are calculated as follows:

#. Estimate the gene expression levels in TPM using *RSEM*. 

#. Suppose ``c`` reads are achieved for one cell, then calculate TPM-normalized count for gene ``i`` as ``TPM_i / 1e6 * c``. 

TPM-normalized counts reflect both the relative expression levels and the cell sequencing depth.


---------------------------------

Custom Genome
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We also provide a way of generating user-customized Genome references for SMART-Seq2 workflow.

#. Import smartseq2_create_reference workflow to your workspace.

    See the Terra documentation for `adding a workflow`_. The smartseq2_create_reference workflow is under ``Broad Methods Repository`` with name "**cumulus/smartseq2_create_reference**".

    Moreover, in the workflow page, click ``Export to Workflow...`` button, and select the workspace to which you want to export ``smartseq2_create_reference`` in the drop-down menu.

#. In your workspace, open ``smartseq2_create_reference`` in ``WORKFLOWS`` tab. Select ``Run workflow with inputs defined by file paths`` as below

    .. image:: images/single_workflow.png

   and click ``SAVE`` button.


Inputs:
^^^^^^^

Please see the description of inputs below. Note that required inputs are shown in bold.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 30 30 5
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Description
      - Type or Example
      - Default
    * - **fasta**
      - Genome fasta file
      - | File. 
        | For example, "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.dna.primary_assembly.fa"
      - 
    * - **gtf**
      - GTF gene annotation file (e.g. Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.83.gtf)
      - | File. 
        | For example, "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.83.gtf"
      - 
    * - **output_directory**
      - Google bucket url for the output folder
      - "gs://fc-e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/output_refs"
      -
    * - **genome**
      - Output reference genome name. Output reference is a gzipped tarball with name genome_aligner.tar.gz
      - "GRCm38_ens97filt"
      -
    * - aligner
      - Build indices for which aligner, choices are hisat2-hca, star, or bowtie2.
      - "hisat2-hca"
      - "hisat2-hca"
    * - smartseq2_version
      - | SMART-Seq2 version to use. 
        | Versions available: 1.1.0.
        | Versions obsoleted: 1.0.0.
      - "1.1.0"
      - "1.1.0"
    * - docker_registry
      - Docker registry to use. Options:

        - "cumulusprod" for Docker Hub images; 

        - "quay.io/cumulus" for backup images on Red Hat registry.
      - "quay.io/cumulus"
      - "cumulusprod"
    * - zones
      - Google cloud zones
      - "us-central1-c"
      - "us-central1-b"
    * - cpu
      - Number of CPUs
      - Integer
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, 8; otherwise 32
    * - memory
      - Memory size string
      - String
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, "7.2G"; otherwise "120G"
    * - disk_space
      - Disk space in GB
      - Integer
      - If aligner is bowtie2 or hisat2-hca, 40; otherwise 120
    * - preemptible
      - Number of preemptible tries
      - Integer
      - 2

Outputs
^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
    :widths: 5 5 10
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Name
      - Type
      - Description
    * - output_reference
      - File
      - The custom Genome reference generated. Its default file name is ``genome_aligner.tar.gz``.
    * - monitoring_log
      - File
      - CPU and memory profiling log.



---------------------------------


.. _gsutil: https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil
.. _adding a workflow: https://support.terra.bio/hc/en-us/articles/360025674392-Finding-the-tool-method-you-need-in-the-Methods-Repository
.. _cellranger mkgtf: https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/software/pipelines/latest/advanced/references
.. _Terra: https://app.terra.bio/
